hi this is pressed halt occur let's
learn how to multiply numbers that are
close to a hundred in your head let's do
97 times 96 there are three steps to the
process the first step is to write down
the difference from 197 is 3 less than
196 is 4 less the second step is to
cross subtract 97 minus 4 is 93 you'll
notice that if you cross subtract the
other way it's the same answer the final
step is to cross multiply 3 times 4 is
12 and that's our answer
nine thousand three hundred and twelve
let's do another example 98 times 93 we
first take the difference from a hundred
of each number then we cross subtract
and finally we cross multiply and then
we get our answer
nine thousand 114 we can also do this
for numbers that are in the 80s it's
exactly the same steps we take the
difference from 100 we cross subtract
and then finally we cross multiply the
same similar process will work if the
two numbers are above 100 you take the
difference from 100 but now the only
difference is we will cross at 107 plus
4 is 111 we still cross multiply and
that's our answer
here's a quick proof of why this works
in general our multiplication problems
have been 100 minus x times 100 minus y
we can write it in this form 100 minus X
minus y is cross subtract and the XY is
the cross multiplying please subscribe
to my channel you can support me on
patreon catch me on my blog mind your
decisions on Twitter at pressure and you
can get my books and Amazon